EECS 3401 
ASSIGNMENT 1
DEADLINE: February 10, 2016


                  KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION and CPL

PROBLEM I. Let us consider a lab door designed in such a way that to open it you
need a magnetic key. To open the door, one has to tap a magnetic lock with the
key being held in one hand while the door is pulled open with the other hand.
Suppose that we want an android (AN) to open the door for us.

The KB of AN should hold, among other facts, information about possible actions AN
can perform. Some of these actions are:

A1. TURN LOCK ON: to turn the lock "on" the following preconditions must be true:
    the lock is "off" and a key touches the magnetic lock. The effect of this action is that
    the lock changes its state from "off" into "on" and that the door can be opened.
 
A2. PULL-DOOR: to pull the door open not only the door can be opened but also AN has to
    pull the door's handle.

A3. RELEASE LOCK: this action turns the lock "off" and this is accomplished when AN is
    not touching magnetic lock with the key.

A4. TOUCH_LOCK: to touch the lock, AN has to have a key. The result of this action is that the
    key is touching the lock.

Use the following variables to represent A1, A2, and A3 in CPL:

  p_off is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that the
        lock is off;                                                                                                                   
  p_on is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that the lock                                                                 
        is on;                                                                                                                         
  p_key  is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that AN has a key to magnetic lock;
  p_h  is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that AN pulls the door handle;
  p_t  is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that the key touches magnetic lock;
  p_opened is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that the
        door is opened;
  p_can is a propositional variable that denotes the fact that the door
        can be opened when its handle is pulled.


Represent actions as implications of the form
           preconditions -> effects

Use the above variables to represent the query:

C. if lock is off, the door is closed, and AN has a key, then the door can be opened.


PROBLEM 2: We have defined a set KB of formulas of CPL to be inconsistent,
           if for no tva h, h(KB)={1}. Show that the following
           conditions are equivalent:
             (i) KB is inconsistent
            (ii) for every formula A, KB |- A
           (iii) KB |- p & ~p.

In your proof, use that fact that for every formula B,

  KB |- B if and only if for every tva h, if h(KB)={1}, then h(B)=1.
  
Please note that "tva" is an abbreviation of "truth-value assignment".



II.                  RESOLUTION RULE: PROPOSITIONAL CASE

PROBLEM 3. Which of the following sets of clauses are inconsistent? Justify your answers by
   either giving a refutation tree or by defining an interpretation that satisfies all the
   clauses in a given set.

(a) {-s, p, q, s v -p v -q},
(b) {-q v -s v -p, s, s v q, p v s, p v q, p v -q, q v -p},
(c) {-p v -q v -s, p v -t, -t, q v -t v -p},
(d) {-p v -s, t v -p, q v -s, q v t, -q v -t, p v s, t v -s, q v -p}.


PROBLEM 4: Consider the android AN described in Problem 1. Suppose that its
         KB consists of just the action formulas A1, A2, and A3,
i.e., that KB={A1, A2, A3}, and that the reasoning module of AN is
implemented as a resolution proof system for classical logic. AN's
reasoning task is to determine whether or not it can open the door, i.e.,
its task is to answer the query
                  KB |- C.
How will AN answer this query? Show all the necessary steps.


PROBLEM 5. Resolution
In their paper [1], Nayak and Williams discuss the following small
fragment of propositional knowledge base used for on-board real-time
diagnosis and recovery for NASA's DS-1 spacecraft:

A1. If bus is inactive or, if there is no command input to bus
    and bus is active, then there is no command output from
    the bus.

A2. Either bus is not operating normally and bus is inactive,
    or bus is neither unrecoverably failed nor recoverably
    failed.

A3. If bus is operating normally, then bus is active.

A4. If bus is recoverably failed, then bus is not unrecoverably
    failed.

A5. If bus is active, then bus is not inactive.

Use the resolution rule to determine whether or not the
following information is `known' to DS-1:

Q.  If bus is operating normally, then bus is active,
    bus is not inactive, and bus is neither recoverably
    nor unrecoverably failed.

In your answer use the following variables:

k: bus is operating normally
r: bus is recoverably failed
u: bus is unrecoverably failed
a: bus is active
n: bus is inactive
i: no command input to bus
o: no command output from the bus

References
[1] Nayak, P. and Williams, B. 1997. Fast Context
    Switching in Real-time Propositional Reasoning. In Proc. of
    the Fourteenth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
    50--56.
    

PROBLEM 6. This problem deals with the issue of efficiency of resolution-based
   reasoning. Before defining the problem, let us define a clause C to be tautological
   if C contains at least one pair of complementary literals (such as p and ~p).
   For instance, q v p v r v ~q is tautological while q v p v r is not. It turns out
   that tautological clauses are useless as far as the resolution-based reasoning is 
   concerned. Such clauses should be discarded as soon as they are deduced to prevent
   possible resolution with them. This fact is based on the following statement:

   (T) Let S be a set of clauses and let C be a tautological clause in S. Then, S is
       consistent iff S-{C} is consistent.
   
   Prove T. 

III.                  RESOLUTION RULE: PREDICATE LOGIC CASE

PROBLEM 7. tba
PROBLEM 8. tba
PROBLEM 9. tba
